1. Security Assets - Security Assets are critical resources which maintain the working of your company and have to be protected for the continuity of your business.
    1. People - Everyone from the security guard to the top most CEO and founders on the board.
    2. Process - The procedures for doing the successful completion of work from start to finish.
    3. Technology - All the software and hardware related tools and machinery which are critical for the company’s day to day activities.
2. CIA triad - It is model designed to guide policy formation for information security within an organization.
    1. Confidentiality - The quality that only the appropriate person can see the appropriate data and no one else.
    2. Integrity - The quality that the data does not get changed without the consent of the original owner.
    3. Availability - The quality that the processes are up and ready to use even in unfavorable conditions.
3. Cybersecurity Frameworks - They are the guidelines, standards, and best practices for risk management in a company.
    1. NIST cybersecurity framework - They are released by the US national Institute of Standards and Technology for risk management. They consist of five stages: identify, protect, detect, respond and recover. The first two stages happen before an incident and the next three after it.
4. Vulnerability - A vulnerability refers to any weakness that is present in your security assets.
5. Exploit - An exploit is way or a procedure to make use of the vulnerability to get a desired result which may or may not be malicious.
6. Risk - Risk is a probability that a vulnerability can be exploited. It can be expressed either qualitatively (risk matrix, risk pie chart, ... ) or quantitively (percentage, scale, ..).
7. Incident - An incident refers to an event where the vulnerability has been exploited and there is a loss for the business.
8. Threats - Threats are factors that can affect the working of a company.
    1. Natural disasters - Earthquakes, Tsunamis, Tornado, …
    2. Environment Threats - Temperature, Humidity, pollution, …
    3. Human threats - These are the most common threats a cyber security professional deals with.
        1. APTs - Advanced Persistent Threats are nation state actors and groups that have the latest technology and immense financial resources.
        2. Cyber Criminals - They are the malicious actors whose main goals are to steal money or get a financial incentive.
        3. Hacktivists - They are groups of people who have a common ideology and want to promote it by attacking other groups of different ideology. Example - anti-abortion, religious, ..
        4. Script Kiddies - These are people without technological knowledge but can do simple point and click hacking and follow tutorials to bypass security limitations.
        5. Insider threats - These can either be malicious or non malicious actors who cause damage to the company by either not being aware or intentionally leaking secrets.